Abstractions - simplification of something so that you don't focus on the lower level implementation details you really just focus on the high level goals or the process itself 
like in case of car we just focus on reaching from point A to B that is abstraction unlike we don't think about low level things that are like how card works and how it's engine actually works 

blank box in middle of input and output that is abstarction is algorithm
Input -> ALgorithm -> Output
 
Algorithm - is a step by step instructions for solving the problem 

implementation details

Finding Luffy's contact in contact app 
It is basically slow process to go step by step from A to Z 
It actually works by going to the middle of the contact and if middle is M which divides it into 12 and 13 and L is in the left section so it makes the half of 12 that is 6 and checks whether L is in left or right and again does the same process by making it half
first algorithm - n - it takes much time 
second algorithm - n/2 - it takes less time than first
third algorithm - log2n - it is very much faster - it is fundamentally different function and shape

pseudocode:
to translate verbally into actual code
it will be like a english syntax
used to solve the problem
the steps:
1. *pick up* the phone book
2. *open to* the middle of the phone book
3. *look at* page
4. if person is on page
5.      *call* person
6. else if person is earlier in book
7.       *open to* middle of left half of book
8.      go back to line 3 //loops
9. else if the person is later in book
10.     *open to* middle of right half of book
11.     go back to line 3 //loops
12. else
13.     *quit*

when we code or program and we want the computer or program to do something for us like action or verb which is called as function

else, else if, if - conditional - checking the consition based on it will be executed - its like this way or that way
Boolean (Boole - Mathematician) Expressions - that way is selected based on this - True(1) or False(0)
it governs which thing to execute whether code in if or else if or else
indentation is required because the indented line will be executed if only answer above that is true
loops - something that we want to do again and again
if the person is in the phone book it will just loop through it and find
if the person is not in the phone book it will just quit

scratch.mit.edu
two dimensional coordinate system
x(240,0)
y(0,180)
-x(-240,0)
-y(0,-180)

drag and drop 
from events when clicked
from looks say hello
the thing inside the white space is arguments or parameters

event : is a generally something graphical or interactive that just happens in a computer program
like click,tap,long press,drag - that are gestures and for that events do something based on our action

input -> algorithm -> output
hello -> say -> cat with hello
argument -> function -> sideeffects